content/using-mdx.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Using MDX'
description: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet'
date: '2025-03-23'
tags: ['nextjs', 'mdx', 'guide']
image: /images/blog/using-mdx.png
author: You
---

import { Button } from '@/components/ui/button' 

This Next.js app is configured with MDX support using the [`@next/mdx`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/mdx) plugin. If you decide not to use MDX, you can remove the configuration from your `next.config.js`.

## Why MDX?

MDX is Markdown on steroids — it lets you embed JSX directly inside Markdown. This means you can [mix Markdown with React components](https://mdxjs.com/docs/what-is-mdx/) to build rich, interactive content.

Perfect for blog posts, documentation, or tutorials that need some React magic ✨.

## Example

Here's how you can use a React component directly in MDX:

<Button>Click Me!</Button>

Yep, that button is fully interactive — thanks to MDX + React.

## More Links

- [MDX Syntax Documentation](https://mdxjs.com/docs/what-is-mdx/)
- [Next.js MDX Setup Guide](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/mdx)
- [Client Components in App Router](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/client-components)

> **Note:** Components used in `.mdx` files should be **Client Components** if they use state, effects, or interactivity.

---

Let me know if you're using the Pages Router instead or want the full setup guide with `next.config.js` and loader info — happy to drop that in too.

Commit message:

feat: add EMAIL_FROM to environment variables and update email templates with improved descriptions

content/using-mdx.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Using MDX'
description: Learn MDX in Next.js to mix Markdown with React. This guide shows setup with @next/mdx, usage tips, and examples to embed JSX in posts—ideal for blogs, docs, and interactive tutorials.
date: '2025-03-23'
tags: ['nextjs', 'mdx', 'guide']
image: /images/blog/using-mdx.png
author: You
---

import { Button } from '@/components/ui/button' 

This Next.js app is configured with MDX support using the [`@next/mdx`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/mdx) plugin. If you decide not to use MDX, you can remove the configuration from your `next.config.js`.

## Why MDX?

MDX is Markdown on steroids — it lets you embed JSX directly inside Markdown. This means you can [mix Markdown with React components](https://mdxjs.com/docs/what-is-mdx/) to build rich, interactive content.

Perfect for blog posts, documentation, or tutorials that need some React magic ✨.

## Example

Here's how you can use a React component directly in MDX:

<Button>Click Me!</Button>

Yep, that button is fully interactive — thanks to MDX + React.

## More Links

- [MDX Syntax Documentation](https://mdxjs.com/docs/what-is-mdx/)
- [Next.js MDX Setup Guide](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/mdx)
- [Client Components in App Router](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/client-components)

> **Note:** Components used in `.mdx` files should be **Client Components** if they use state, effects, or interactivity.

---

Let me know if you're using the Pages Router instead or want the full setup guide with `next.config.js` and loader info — happy to drop that in too.
